one trillion yeah this number is already
insane
but it's just our starting point try to
wrap your head around the fact
that one trillion seconds is 32 000
years
and from here let's go further there are
three trillion trees on our planet
compare that to 7.8 billion people and
realize how insignificant we are in our
own world
six trillion miles is a distance more or
less equal to one light year
that's how far light the fastest thing
in the universe travels in a single year
and that's not even close to the nearest
star apart from the sun
a human body consists of 37 trillion
cells
each day you lose from 50 to 70 billion
of them
and they always get replaced by other
new ones
the largest known galaxy in the universe
called ic1101
consists of about 100 trillion stars
it's the same number as there are
synapses in an average human brain
scientists estimate that there's
anywhere from 1 to 10
quadrillion of ants living on earth
their combined weight is similar to the
combined weight of
all the humans on the planet if there
was someone alive at the beginning
of the universe and they have been
counting every second from then
until today they'd be at somewhere
around 434 quadrillion
seconds right now we mentioned ants
already
so why not count all the insects on our
planet there are
according to estimates about 10
quintillion of them
living side by side with us hopefully
not side by side
a rubik's cube with three rows of three
tiles per side
has over 43 quintillion different
combinations
and some people can solve it in less
than 5 seconds
if you take a regular computer keyboard
and type in a 10 character password on
it
it will take about 60 quintillion
attempts for anyone else to blindly
guess it
if you ever decide to count all the
grains of sand on all the world's
beaches
don't even bother you're already a dozen
billion years late
there's a whole sextillion of them you a
suduko fan
you needn't worry about running out of
your favorite puzzles anytime soon
there are 6.7 sextillion possible
9x9 suduko grids the observable universe
which is by the way about 93 billion
light years
seems to be home to somewhere around 100
sextillion stars
and now try to imagine that each of them
has at least one planet
or eight as our sun does 600
sextillion that's the approximate number
of atoms in a single mole of any given
chemical substance
the exact amount is called the avrogadro
number
not to be confused with the avocado
couple
one septillion or a trillion trillion
has
24 zeros after one in computing
a septillion bites is called a yatta
bite
and what a great name for a restaurant
you gotta bite this
how yummy if you're into mathematics
you might find it curious that the
largest power of two that doesn't have a
zero
and fully written out is two to the 86
power
or more than 77 septillion
we've covered cells in the human body
but what about
atoms they're smaller and much more
numerous there are about seven
octillion of them in you at any given
time
ever played poker in your life then you
should know that there are more than 21
octillion possible combination of cards
in a 10 player game
what are the odds of winning then well
either you have a slim
chance or a fat chance or no chance
take your pick the total number of
bacteria on our planet
equals something about 5 million that's
a sextillion times more than there are
people
and a quadrillion times more than the
ants
if you're bored in solving the 3 by 3 by
3 rubik's cube
think about solving an alexander's star
it has over
7 decilion possible combinations and is
not a cube
but a great dodecahedron 10 to the power
of 36
is called an undecillion and there are
more than 340 of them
as we speak about the total number of
possible internet addresses
under the ipv6 system oh solve that
alexander star
good job now how about a rubik's revenge
it's a cube that has
four rows of four tiles each and the
number of possible combinations here
is about 7.4 cuatro decilion
that's 45 zeros after 10 if you're
interested
chess is a strategy game of all time and
for a good reason
there are more than 45 quadro decilion
positions
possible on a chessboard want to test
them all
prepare to burn the most powerful
computer in the world
remember how many atoms there are in
your body alone well there are over 13
quin decillions of them in our planet
and every second
this number grows the mass of all matter
in the universe
we're now not talking about dark matter
just the ordinary kind
has been calculated to be 146
quindicillion
tons delving into the absurd it's like a
quindicillian blue whales
yeah i won't explain too much of it
planck units are basically the shortest
measurements of
everything in the universe and eight
november decilion
is an approximate number of planck time
units that have passed since the big
bang
the ancient greek philosopher archimedes
theorized that
to fill the entire universe with sand
one would need about one
vegetarian grains of the stuff it should
be noted though
that he understood the universe as only
two light years in diameter
if you skip through time back to the big
bang with a deck of 52 cards
and started shuffling them right away
right now
you wouldn't even be halfway to mixing
them in all possible orders
the number is roughly 80 unvegitilian
when you get so far to solve the rubik's
revenge in less than a minute
i dare you to try a mega mix
it's a dodecahedron like alexander's
star
but the number of possible combinations
here is incomparably larger
101 unvigentillian
done with that too what can i say here's
another rubik's cube variation for you
called a professor's cue it has five
rows of five tiles each
giving a total number of 283
trey vigintilian combinations that's
almost three million times more
than a megaminx has have fun
in cosmology there's a widely
unrecognized value called the edington
number
it states that the total number of
fundamental particles
that is protons and electrons in the
universe is roughly
100 quin vigentillion it's not even
counting all the neutrons and morons in
the universe
we finally run out of vigintillions
hopefully forever
and come to a simple yet totally
mind-blowing number
a google sounds like the search engine
but spelled differently
remember the archimedes sand dilemma
you'd need 100
000 universes similar to the one we can
observe today
to store a google of sand grains now
prepare for some serious brain racking
1.57
multiplied by 10 to the power of 116
that's the number of possible
combinations in a v cubed
six which has six rows of six tiles each
in sanskrit the ancient language born in
india
there's a special word for a number of
10 to the power of 140
it means innumerable how did they even
come to this value i wonder
you think v cube 6 was hard well there's
a v
cube 7 too you guessed it that's a
rubik's cube with 7 rows of 7 tiles each
its number of combinations has 44 more
zeros after 10
than that of the six row version chess
is
child's play compared to the ancient
chinese game of go
these black and white pebbles can be
placed in a number of positions
that has 170 zeros after one
but even that pales in comparison with a
good old
scrabble tiles of this popular word game
can be arranged
in a number of positions with 181 zeros
remember planck units here's another one
10 to the power of 186
is a number of plank volumes in the
observable universe
and finally the largest of them all the
mighty
google plex it's so big that if you try
to write it with all the zeros after the
initial 10
you'll probably have to travel beyond
the boundaries of the observable
universe
and yet there's one more it doesn't have
any name but according to the theory of
the multiverse
it's the estimate of all the universes
there can be
apart from ours and to write this one
out in its entirety
you'd probably have to cross them all oh
my head hurts